# Turing-Machine
A simulated Turing Machine made in C++ 
What is a turing machine?
As per wikipedia, "A Turing machine is a mathematical model of computation describing an abstract machine that manipulates symbols on a strip of tape according to a table of rules.". It is a machine that can be used to determine whether a certain string is in a certain language .It does this by reading a certain symbol on a string, the determining whether to change the symbol, then determining whether to move left or right and the determining whether or not to move to another internal state within the turing machine. It doesn't do this out of its own volition it gets given a set of rules to follow which the user can come up with. The setup of a rule basically goes like this you're in a certain state you see a certain symbol you go to another state you replace that symbol with another symbol and then you move left or right. For example (q1 ,a) = {q1, b, R} would be a rule in the turing machine. How one can read this rule is that you are in state q1 you see an “a” which you would then go to q1 replace the “a” with a “b” and then move the read/write head right.With enough well-thought-out rules one can create a turing machine that can only accept strings in a certain language like n amount of zeros followed by n amount of ones(0^n1^n). In this repository what I have created was a digital tiring machine and I have already provided two files containing rule sets. You can try to create your own rule set using the following rule format "state your in" "symbol your reading" "state you go to" "new symbol" "move read/write head left or right(L or R)". Ensure that you separated by one space and one space only, and I hope you enjoy my addition to the Church Turing thesis.

If you are more curious on how turing machine's work please see below atricle:
https://www.nutsvolts.com/magazine/article/turing_machines
